
  Mesoamerican pyramids

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation <#mw-head> Jump to search <#p-search>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Question_book-new.svg>
	
This article *needs additional citations for verification
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Verifiability>*.Please help
improve this article
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit>
by adding citations to reliable sources
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Referencing_for_beginners>.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
/Find sources:/ "Mesoamerican pyramids"
<https://www.google.com/search?as_eq=wikipedia&q=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22> – news
<https://www.google.com/search?tbm=nws&q=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22+-wikipedia> *·*
newspapers
<https://www.google.com/search?&q=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22+site:news.google.com/newspapers&source=newspapers> *·*
books
<https://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&q=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22+-wikipedia> *·*
scholar
<https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22> *·*
JSTOR
<https://www.jstor.org/action/doBasicSearch?Query=%22Mesoamerican+pyramids%22&acc=on&wc=on>
/(December 2006)//(Learn how and when to remove this template message
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal>)/

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Piramide_Chichen-Itza_-_panoramio_(2).jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Piramide_Chichen-Itza_-_panoramio_(2).jpg>
El Castillo, Chichen Itza
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Castillo,_Chichen_Itza>

*Mesoamerican pyramids* or pyramid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid>-shaped structures form a
prominent part of ancient Mesoamerican architecture
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_architecture>. Although
similar to each other in some ways these New World structures with their
flat tops (many with temples on the top) and their stairs bear only a
very weak architectural <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture>
resemblance to Egyptian pyramids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egyptian_pyramids>.^[1] <#cite_note-1>
^[2] <#cite_note-2> The Mesoamerican
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerica> region's largest pyramid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid> by volume – the largest pyramid
in the world by volume – is the Great Pyramid of Cholula
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Pyramid_of_Cholula>, in the
east-central Mexican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mexico> state
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mexican_state> of Puebla
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puebla>. The builders of certain classic
Mesoamerican pyramids have decorated them copiously with stories about
the Hero Twins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_Hero_Twins>, the
feathered serpent Quetzalcoatl
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quetzalcoatl>, Mesoamerican creation
myths <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_creation_myths>,
ritualistic sacrifice, etc.written in the form of hieroglyphs on the
rises of the steps of the pyramids, on the walls, and on the sculptures
contained within.^[3] <#cite_note-3>


Contents

  * 1 Aztecs <#Aztecs>
  * 2 Maya pyramids <#Maya_pyramids>
  * 3 Purépechans <#Purépechans>
  * 4 Teotihuacan <#Teotihuacan>
  * 5 Toltec <#Toltec>
  * 6 Classic Veracruz <#Classic_Veracruz>
  * 7 Zapotecs <#Zapotecs>
  * 8 Others <#Others>
      o 8.1 Altavista <#Altavista>
          + 8.1.1 La Quemada <#La_Quemada>
  * 9 See also <#See_also>
  * 10 References <#References>
  * 11 External links <#External_links>


    Aztecs[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=1>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:StaCeciliaAcatitlan.jpg>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:StaCeciliaAcatitlan.jpg>
Santa Cecilia Acatitlan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Cecilia_Acatitlan> pyramid

The Aztecs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aztec>, a people with a rich
mythology and cultural heritage, dominated central Mexico in the 14th,
15th and 16th centuries.^[4] <#cite_note-4> Their capital was
Tenochtitlan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenochtitlan> on the shore
of Lake Texcoco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Texcoco> – the site
of modern-day Mexico City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mexico_City>.
They were related to the preceding cultures in the basin of Mexico such
as the culture of Teotihuacan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teotihuacan> whose building style they
adopted and adapted.

  * El Tepozteco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Tepozteco>
  * Malinalco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malinalco,_Mexico_State>
  * Santa Cecilia Acatitlan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Cecilia_Acatitlan>
  * Templo Mayor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Templo_Mayor>
  * Tenayuca <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenayuca>
  * Tenochtitlan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenochtitlan>


    Maya pyramids[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=2>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:15-07-14-Edzna-Campeche-Mexico-RalfR-WMA_0700-edit.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:15-07-14-Edzna-Campeche-Mexico-RalfR-WMA_0700-edit.jpg>
Edzna <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edzna>

The Maya <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_civilization> are a people
of southern Mexico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mexico> and northern
Central America <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_America>
(Guatemala <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guatemala>, Belize
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belize>, western Honduras
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honduras>, and El Salvador
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Salvador>) with some 3,000 years of
history. Archaeological <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archaeology>
evidence shows the Maya started to build ceremonial architecture
approximately 3,000 years ago. The earliest monuments consisted of
simple burial mounds <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tumulus>, the
precursors to the spectacular stepped pyramids from the Terminal
Pre-classic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_Pre-classic> period
and beyond.

These pyramids relied on intricate carved stone in order to create a
stair-stepped design. Many of these structures featured a top platform
upon which a smaller dedicatory building was constructed, associated
with a particular Maya deity
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_mythology>. Maya pyramid-like
structures were also erected to serve as a place of interment for
powerful rulers. Maya pyramidal structures occur in a great variety of
forms and functions, bounded by regional and periodical differences.

  * Aguateca <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aguateca>
  * Altun Ha <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altun_Ha>
  * Bonampak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonampak>
  * Calakmul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calakmul>
  * Caracol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caracol>
  * Chichen Itza <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chichen_Itza>
  * Cholula <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholula_(Mesoamerican_site)>
  * Coba <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coba>
  * Comalcalco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comalcalco>
  * Copan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copan>
  * Dos Pilas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dos_Pilas>
  * Edzna <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edzna>
  * El Mirador <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Mirador>
  * El Tigre
  * La Danta
  * Kaminaljuyu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaminaljuyu>
  * Lamanai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamanai>
  * La Venta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Venta>
  * Los Monos
  * Lubaantun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lubaantun>
  * Mayapan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayapan>
  * Mixco Viejo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mixco_Viejo>
  * Moral Reforma <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_Reforma>
  * Nim Li Punit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nim_Li_Punit>
  * Palenque <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palenque>: Temple of the
    Inscriptions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_of_the_Inscriptions>
  * San Andrés, El Salvador
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Andr%C3%A9s,_El_Salvador>
  * Tazumal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tazumal>
  * Tikal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal>: Tikal Temple I
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal_Temple_I>; Tikal Temple II
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal_Temple_II>; Tikal Temple III
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal_Temple_III>; Tikal Temple IV
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal_Temple_IV>; Tikal Temple V
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tikal_Temple_V>; Lost World Pyramid
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mundo_Perdido,_Tikal#Lost_World_Pyramid>;
    Talud-Tablero Temple
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mundo_Perdido,_Tikal#Talud-Tablero_Temple>
  * Tonina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tonina>
  * Uxmal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uxmal>
  * Yaxchilan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yaxchilan>
  * Yaxha <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yaxha>
  * Xunantunich <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xunantunich>


    Purépechans[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=3>]

The Tarascan state <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarascan_state> was a
precolumbian culture located in the modern day Mexican state of
Michoacán <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michoac%C3%A1n>. The region is
currently inhabited by the modern descendants of the Purépecha
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pur%C3%A9pecha_people>. Purépechan
architecture is noted for "T"-shaped step pyramids
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Step_pyramid> known as /yácatas
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Y%C3%A1cata&action=edit&redlink=1>/.


  * Tzintzuntzan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tzintzuntzan_(Mesoamerican_site)>


    Teotihuacan[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=4>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Piramide_del_Sol_072006.JPG>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Piramide_del_Sol_072006.JPG>
Pyramid of the Sun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid_of_the_Sun>

The Teotihuacan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teotihuacan>
civilization, which flourished from around 300 BCE to 500 CE, at its
greatest extent included most of Mesoamerica. Teotihuacano culture
collapsed around 550 and was followed by several large city-states such
as Xochicalco (whose inhabitants were probably of Matlatzinca
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matlatzinca_people> ethnicity), Cholula
(whose inhabitants were probably Oto-Manguean
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oto-Manguean_languages>), and later the
ceremonial site of Tula
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tula_(Mesoamerican_site)> (which has
traditionally been claimed to have been built by Toltecs
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toltecs> but which now is thought to have
been founded by the Huastec
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huastec_civilization> culture).

  * El Castillo
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Castillo,_Chichen_Itza> & High
    Priest's Temple
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chichen_Itza#High_Priest.27s_Temple>
    in Chichen Itza <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chichen_Itza>
  * Pyramids of the Sun
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid_of_the_Sun>, the Moon
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid_of_the_Moon> and Temple of
    the Feathered Serpent
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_of_the_Feathered_Serpent,_Teotihuacan>
    in Teotihuacan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teotihuacan>
  * Xochicalco <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xochicalco>
  * Talud-tablero <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talud-tablero>


    Toltec[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=5>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Tajin1913.jpg>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Tajin1913.jpg>
El Tajín

The site called Tula <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tula,_Hidalgo>, the
Toltec <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toltec> capitol, in the state of
Mexico is one of the best preserved five-tier pyramids in Mesoamerican
civilization. The ground plan of the site has two pyramids, Pyramid B
and Pyramid C.^[5] <#cite_note-5>

The Toltec empire lasted from around 700 to 1100.^[6] <#cite_note-:0-6>
Although the origin of the Toltec Empire is a mystery, they are said to
have migrated Mexico's northern plateau until they set up their empire’s
capital in central Mexico, called Tula, which is 70 km/40 mi northwest
of modern day Mexico City. When the city of Tula was in its prime it had
around 40,000 people living in it and the city flourished from 900 to
1100.^[7] <#cite_note-:1-7> The city of Tula had a main plaza surrounded
by 2 pyramids and a ritual ball court.^[7] <#cite_note-:1-7> The most
popular pyramid on this site (pyramid b) is the pyramid of Quetzalcoatl
which is a five-tiered pyramid with four giant carved pillars on top.
The pyramid of Quetzalcoatl was named after a story of a legendary
priest, also named Quetzalcoatl who was exiled from Tula around the year
1000. He is said to have ended warfare between Mayan city states and
after that the Toltecs started worshiping Quetzalcoatl.^[6]
<#cite_note-:0-6>


    Classic Veracruz[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=6>]

The best known Classic Veracruz
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic_Veracruz_culture> pyramid, the
Pyramid of Niches in El Tajín
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Taj%C3%ADn>, is smaller than those of
their neighbours and successors but more intricate.

  * El Tajín <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Taj%C3%ADn>


    Zapotecs[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=7>]

The Zapotecs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zapotec_civilization> were
one of the earliest Mesoamerican cultures and held sway over the Valley
of Oaxaca <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valley_of_Oaxaca> region from
the early first millennium BCE to about the 14th century.

  * Monte Albán <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Alb%C3%A1n>
  * Mitla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mitla>


    Others[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=8>]

The following sites are from northern Mesoamerica, built by cultures
whose ethnic affiliations are unknown:


      Altavista[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=9>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Votive_Pyramid_La_Quemada.JPG>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Votive_Pyramid_La_Quemada.JPG>
Votive Pyramid at La Quemada

This astronomical and also ceremonial center was the product of the
Chalchihuite
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chalchihuite&action=edit&redlink=1>
culture. Its occupation and development had a period of approximately
800 years (ca. 200—1000). This zone is considered an important
archaeological center because of the astonishing, accurate functions of
the edifications. The ones that stand out the most are: The Moon Plaza,
The Votive Pyramid, the Ladder of Gamio and The labyrinth. In The
Labyrinth you can appreciate with precision and accuracy, the respective
equinoxes and the seasons.


        La Quemada[edit
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=10>]

A great quantity of buildings were constructed on artificial terraces
upon the slopes of a hill. The materials used here include stone slab
and clay. The most important structures are: The Hall of Columns, The
Ball Court, The Votive Pyramid, and The Palace and the Barracks. On the
most elevated part of the hill is The Fortress. This is composed of a
small pyramid and a platform, encircled by a wall that is more than 800m
long and up to six feet high. La Quemada was occupied from 800 to 1200.
Their founders and occupants have not been identified with certainty but
probably belonged to either the Chalchihuites
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chalchihuites> culture or that of the
neighbouring Malpaso culture.^[8] <#cite_note-8>


    See also[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=11>]

	Wikimedia Commons has media related to /*Mesoamerican pyramids
<https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Mesoamerican_pyramids>*/.

	Look up /*mesoamerican pyramids
<https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Special:Search/mesoamerican_pyramids>*/
in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

  * List of Mesoamerican pyramids
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Mesoamerican architecture
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_architecture>
  * Platform mound <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_mound>
  * South American pyramids <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caral>
  * Step pyramid <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Step_pyramid>
  * Triadic pyramid <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triadic_pyramid>
  * Ziggurat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ziggurat>


    References[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=12>]

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-1>* Feder, Kenneth L. (2010). /Encyclopedia of Dubious
    Archaeology: From Atlantis to the Walam Olum: From Atlantis to the
    Walam Olum/
    <https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=RlRz2symkAsC&pg=PA34&dq=Mesoamerican+pyramids+Egyptian&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjakrno7YjhAhVNRBUIHZOTCY0Q6AEINjAC#v=onepage&q=Mesoamerican%20pyramids%20Egyptian&f=false>.
    ABC-CLIO. p. 34. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)> 9780313379192
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780313379192>.
    Retrieved 17 March 2019.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* Takacs, Sarolta Anna; Cline, Eric H. (2015). /The
    Ancient World/
    <https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=SPcvCgAAQBAJ&pg=PA16&dq=Mesoamerican+pyramids+Egyptian&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjakrno7YjhAhVNRBUIHZOTCY0Q6AEILzAB#v=onepage&q=Mesoamerican%20pyramids%20Egyptian&f=false>.
    Routledge. p. 16. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)> 9781317458395
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9781317458395>.
    Retrieved 17 March 2019.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* Koontz, Rex (2013). /Mexico: From the Olmecs to
    the Aztecs/. New York, New York: Thames and Hudson. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)> 9780500290767
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/9780500290767>.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* "The Aztecs/Mexicas"
    <http://www.indians.org/welker/aztec.htm>. Retrieved 2006-12-27.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* Coe, Michael, D (2013). /Mexico: From the Olmecs
    to the Aztecs/. New York, New York: Thames and Hudson. pp. 170–176.
    ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)> 978-0-500-29076-7
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-500-29076-7>.
 6. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:0_6-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:0_6-1>
    "Toltec 'builder'"
    <https://search-credoreference-com.proxy-iup.klnpa.org/content/entry/heliconhe/toltec/0>.
    /Credo Reference/. 2018.
 7. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:1_7-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:1_7-1>
    "Tula or Tollan"
    <https://search-credoreference-com.proxy-iup.klnpa.org/content/entry/heliconhe/tula/1>.
    /Credo Reference/.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* Kelly 2001, pp30-2.

    Kelly, Joyce (2001). /An Archaeological Guide to Central and
    Southern Mexico/. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Oklahoma_Press>. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)> 0-8061-3349-X
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-8061-3349-X>.


    External links[edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit&section=13>]

  * Meso-American pyramids
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20070612165555/http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/prehistory/latinamerica/topics/pyramids.html>
  * Photos and descriptions of Yaxha, Tonina, Edzna, El Mirador and
    other Meso-American pyramids <http://amazingtemples.com/>

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&oldid=960538470
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&oldid=960538470>"
Categories <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category>:

  * Mesoamerican pyramids
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Mesoamerican architecture
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Mesoamerican_architecture>
  * Architectural styles
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Architectural_styles>
  * Archaeological sites in Mexico
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Archaeological_sites_in_Mexico>
  * Lists of buildings and structures in Mexico
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Lists_of_buildings_and_structures_in_Mexico>
  * Lists of buildings and structures
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Lists_of_buildings_and_structures>
  * Lists of buildings and structures in North America
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Lists_of_buildings_and_structures_in_North_America>
  * Mexico history-related lists
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Mexico_history-related_lists>

Hidden categories:

  * Articles needing additional references from December 2006
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_needing_additional_references_from_December_2006>
  * All articles needing additional references
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:All_articles_needing_additional_references>
  * Commons category link is on Wikidata
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Commons_category_link_is_on_Wikidata>


    Navigation menu


Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk>
  * Contributions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions>
  * Create account
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Mesoamerican+pyramids>
  * Log in
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Mesoamerican+pyramids>


Namespaces

  * Article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Talk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Mesoamerican_pyramids>


      Variants


Views

  * Read <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=edit>
  * View history
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=history>


      More


      Search

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>


Navigation

  * Main page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>
  * Contents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents>
  * Current events <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events>
  * Random article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Contact us <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>
  * Donate
    <https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en>
  * Wikipedia store <https://shop.wikimedia.org/>


      Contribute

  * Help <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents>
  * Community portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal>
  * Recent changes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges>
  * Upload file <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard>


      Tools

  * What links here
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Related changes
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Upload file <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard>
  * Special pages <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages>
  * Permanent link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&oldid=960538470>
  * Page information
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&action=info>
  * Cite this page
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Mesoamerican_pyramids&id=960538470&wpFormIdentifier=titleform>
  * Wikidata item
    <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q2270185>


      Languages

  * العربية
    <https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A3%D9%87%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%85%D8%A7%D8%AA_%D8%A3%D9%85%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A9>
  * Български
    <https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9C%D0%B5%D0%B7%D0%BE%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%BD%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B8_%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B8%D0%B4%D0%B8>
  * Dansk <https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerikanske_pyramider>
  * Español
    <https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basamentos_piramidales_de_Mesoam%C3%A9rica>
  * Esperanto <https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bazpiramidoj_de_Mezameriko>
  * Հայերեն
    <https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D5%84%D5%A5%D5%A6%D5%B8%D5%A1%D5%B4%D5%A5%D6%80%D5%AB%D5%AF%D5%B5%D5%A1%D5%B6_%D5%A2%D5%B8%D6%82%D6%80%D5%A3%D5%A5%D6%80>
  * Bahasa Indonesia <https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piramida_Mesoamerika>
  * Italiano <https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piramidi_mesoamericane>
  * ქართული
    <https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%9B%E1%83%94%E1%83%A1%E1%83%9D%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%94%E1%83%A0%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%A3%E1%83%9A%E1%83%98_%E1%83%9E%E1%83%98%E1%83%A0%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%98%E1%83%93%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%98>
  * Latviešu <https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vidusamerikas_piram%C4%ABdas>
  * Lietuvių <https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mezoamerikos_piramid%C4%97s>
  * Português <https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pir%C3%A2mides_mesoamericanas>
  * Русский
    <https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9C%D0%B5%D0%B7%D0%BE%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%BD%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B5_%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B8%D0%B4%D1%8B>
  * Simple English <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamerican_pyramids>
  * Српски / srpski
    <https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A1%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%9A%D0%BE%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%BA%D0%B5_%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B8%D0%B4%D0%B5>
  * Українська
    <https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9C%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%BE%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%BD%D1%81%D1%8C%D0%BA%D1%96_%D0%BF%D1%96%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BC%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%B8>
    7 more

Edit links
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q2270185#sitelinks-wikipedia>


      In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Mesoamerican_pyramids>


      Print/export

  * Download as PDF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:ElectronPdf&page=Mesoamerican+pyramids&action=show-download-screen>
  * Printable version
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&printable=yes>

  * This page was last edited on 3 June 2020, at 14:07 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
    License
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License><https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/>;
    additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the
    Terms of Use <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use>
    and Privacy Policy
    <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>. Wikipedia®
    is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
    <https://www.wikimediafoundation.org/>, a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Disclaimers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer>
  * Contact Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>
  * Developers
    <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute>
  * Statistics <https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org>
  * Cookie statement
    <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement>
  * Mobile view
    <https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mesoamerican_pyramids&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile>
  * Enable previews <#>

  * Wikimedia Foundation <https://wikimediafoundation.org/>
  * Powered by MediaWiki <https://www.mediawiki.org/>

